this is the ultimate fortnite chapter 6
season 2 optimization guide you will get
at least 10 to 15% FPS boost fix any FPS
drops and fixed stutters and as proof I
use the same tweaks on a lowend PC to go
from 100 fps to over 270 FPS in fortnite
so whether you have a highend PC or a
low-end PC this guide will boost your
FPS and lower your input delay starting
off with the most basic settings which a
lot of people Overlook and miss out on a
lot of performance so open up the epic
games launcher go to the fortnite click
on these three dots and click on manage
inside of here turn on the launch
options and make sure to copy and paste
this command from the description as you
can see that using this command does
lower the average FPS a bit however the
1% lows are much more consistent meaning
it can help a lot of you guys to fix FPS
drops and stuttering moving on to the
in-game settings I will go more in depth
about these settings and I will also
show you the benchmarks for each of
these settings so that you can see which
one works the best for your PC so open
up these settings from here so under the
display settings you have three options
for Window mode full screen window full
screen and windowed mode so on window
full screen mode I was getting
consistent around 110 average FPS and on
Window mode the average FPS jumped to
around 125 which is a 15 FPS increase on
average probably because of the lower
resolution scaling of Window mode as for
the full screen mode the average FPS
were around 120 but they weren't
dropping as much compared to window full
screen mode and the windowed mode you
can also see from these benchmarks that
the full screen mode is clearly the best
even though we have more average FPS in
Window mode the input response on Window
mode was horrible and the 1% lows as
well as the. 1% lows are also worse
compared to full screen mode however
these results May Vary for some of you
but I definitely recommend using full
screen mode for the most FPS in fortnite
up next is the resolution now I always
recommend that you play on your native
resolution and go ahead and lower the 3D
resolution if you want more performance
however lowering this native resolution
down to something like, 1600 by 900 can
also give you a huge performance boost
as you can see from these benchmarks but
once again this should be your loss
Resort moving on to vsync this should be
always turned off it does help with
screen tearing however the amount of
input lag that it introduces is not
worth it then there is the frame rate
limiter now if you are struggling with
FPS drops and stuttering a lot then
limiting your FPS is the best way to fix
FPS drops however you shouldn't be using
this in-game frame rate limit but
instead ratun a statistic server to
limit your FPS so let's set up the r
tuner and then I'll show you the
comparison between limiting your FPS
from here and limiting your f PS from
there so revat un statistic server comes
bundled in with the MSI off burner and
we will be using this software later on
as well so simply go down to the
description and go to their website then
click on this final release and download
it then you would install it as you
would install any other software once
you have installed the software and
launched it it should be down here in
your taskbar so simply open it up then
go ahead and show it then inside of here
go to settings and make sure that start
with Windows and start minimized are
both check then hit okay and then do the
same thing for the reest unit statistic
server it should be started right here
but if it isn't you can search it from
the start menu and then open it up
inside of here make sure that start with
Windows is on but now before applying
this frame rate limit I'll show you the
comparison so if I go ahead and use the
frame rate limit inside the game to cap
my FPS at let's say around 180 you can
see that my FPS are kept at 180 however
they're dropping quite a bit also the
frame rate graph as you can see is not a
straight line and variation in this
graph means micro stutters and FPS drops
now let's open up the re unit statis sck
server and go to the frame rate limit
then type it 180 from here and hit enter
now I'm going to go back to the settings
and set my frame rate limit to unlimited
and this time as you can see that my FPS
are once again gapped at 180 however
they're only dropping to 179 and the
frame time graph is a complete straight
line meaning there are no micro stutters
or Jitters and the game is running
completely smooth so this is the reason
that I highly recommend you to always
cap your FPS using R tuner instead of
the in-game frame rate limit but before
changing the rendering mode and showing
you guys the benchmarks let's move on to
the graphics quality settings and set
the quality preset to low since these
settings in direct X11 do affect the
performance mode too once you have done
that the rendering mode that I recommend
is of course performance mode as you can
see from these benchmarks that
performance mode beats both directx11
and direct X12 by a mile going over 300
average FPS while dx11 caps at 213 while
dx12 capping at 187 FPS give a a also
for AMD gpus a lot of people believe
that dx12 will give you you more FPS on
AMD gpgs which is completely wrong here
are the benchmarks by corvy Tech which
clearly Label Performance mode as the
winner and you can check out his
complete video on the topic link will be
in the description so go ahead and apply
the performance mode and restart your
game and the final setting inside of
here is the Nvidia Reflex on plusus
Boost gave me the best performance due
to significantly better 1% lows and. 1%
lows followed by off and then on but
this highly depends on your system
configuration and your GPU so make sure
to test on as well since setting it to
on tent to gives better performance on
most modern Nvidia gpus moving on we
have process lasso this is a software
that I have benchmarked in a previous
video and I'll show you those benchmarks
right here as you can see that the
average FPS remain pretty much the same
however the 1% lows and the 1% lows
improved by quite a bit this results in
not only the lower latency but also
fixes any FPS drops issues that you
might be facing so go down into the
description and download process lesso
from their website then once again
install it as you would install any
other soft software once you have it
running simply go to the options and
then go to CPU then under prob balance
enable Pro balance should be checked and
then click on Advanced options inside of
here simply go ahead and copy all of
these settings of mine I have explained
all of these in detail in my previous
video so I'm not going to go ahead and
waste your time once more after copying
these settings go to set excluded
processes and add these three processes
to make sure that we do not mess up with
any of the windows processes then hit
okay hit okay once more go to options
and this time go to memory then enable
Smart trim should be checked and click
on Smart Rim options once again copy all
of my settings from here and for this
box make sure that you type in half of
your total Ram in my case I have 16 gigs
of RAM so I have typed in 8,000 which is
roughly the half then click on set
exclusions and once again copy all of
these EXs by typing them inside of here
and clicking on ADD you can pause the
video here then hit okay then hit okay
once more and now moving on to the
fortnite specific optimization for that
you will need to make sure that the
fortnite is running in the background
then go ahead and open up the process
lesso in front go to the active
processes and inside of here find the
fortnite client win64 shipping. DXE
simply right click on it then go to CPU
priority then under always make sure to
set it to high right click on it once
again and this time go to Power profile
and make sure that it is set to none
since we will be using the ultimate
performance power plan then right click
it once more under more go to hard
throttle then under always make sure
that no throttle is checked and to make
sure that all of these optimizations are
applied to fortnite every single time
simply go to file then click on conf
config profile and then under there
click on create config profile name it
anything that you want I'm going to go
ahead and name it fortnite 2 then make
sure to check the use current settings
as this profile and then hit okay and
now if I go under file and config
profile you can see that the fortnite 2
profile is active and for this to
properly work you will need to keep it
minimized while playing the game next up
we will be deading and optimizing the
windows and to ease this task we will be
using the CTT now I know that a lot of
you guys may have already used it but
even if you did I highly recommend that
you use use it again because after
Windows updates or even fortnite updates
a lot of these tweaks can get reset and
also because the tool keeps getting
updated too it does have better
optimizations every time so to use it go
down to your start menu and search for
Powershell then run it as administrator
and once it opens up simply copy and
paste this command from the description
and hit enter once this opens up go to
the tweaks Tab and inside of here if you
don't want to customize these settings
like me simply go ahead and click on the
standard button and click on run tweaks
however I do like to customize all of
these settings to get the most
performance out of my PC for that we
will go ahead and of course create a
system restore point delete all the
temporary files disable consumer
features disabled Telemetry activity
history and all of this good stuff
however one more thing that I want to
disable is actually recall and if you
are on a laptop then you should also
check the set hibernation as default
option for desktop PCS these are the
settings that I recommend for essential
tweaks inside of the advanced tweaks I
always like to check the Adobe Network
block Adobe de load prefer ipv4 over
IPv6 since this disabling IPv6 can cause
a few issues then disable background
apps as well as disable Microsoft
co-pilot and yeah that's basically it
now I'm going to go ahead and click on
run tweaks and all of these tweaks
should be running right here and it also
creates a system restore point so you
can rever these settings whenever you
want and once all the tweaks have been
applied simply go ahead and close out of
it then moving on to the Nvidia control
panel optimizations for the MD folks you
can go ahead and Skip up to the next
chapter in the video but for the Nvidia
ones make sure that you always have the
latest driver so go ahead and update
your graphics driver right now then in
the Nvidia control panel click the use
Advanced 3D image settings and hit apply
then press take me there and here we
will apply the best Nvidia control panel
settings for fortnite so image
sharpening should be off ambient
ollusion should also be turned off
anistropic filtering should be off and
all types of antling should be turned
off since antling is mostly ju to smooth
out the pixels and edges and can
negatively impact the performance for CA
gpus just select your main GPU and for
low latency mode just keep it at off for
fortnite since we want to use the Nvidia
reflex within the fortnite settings
which will override this anyway so just
set it to off Max frame rate should be
turned off since we don't want to limit
our FPS from here and then for power
management mode just set it to prefer
maximum performance for Shader cache
size just set it to the driver's default
texture filtering and as stopic sample
option should be off negative load bias
should be allow and for Quality set it
to high performance and set the try
linear optimizations to on for threaded
optimizations I just like to keep it at
on but for some people it may work
better if turned off you need to test
this one for yourself or just set it to
Auto if not sure triple buffering should
be offed as well and vsync is a
no-brainer so set it to off moving on to
the AMD optimization simply go ahead and
go to the AMD software and also make
sure that you have updated to your
latest graphics driver then for fortnite
go under gaming then click on fortnite
inside of here set the graphics profile
to Performance then radon anti-ag should
be enabled but what we are more
concerned with is the advanced settings
so scroll down to the advanced settings
and inside of here make sure that the
texture filtering quality set to
Performance and surface format
optimization is enabled it basically
means that the AMD driver will itself
choose the format that it wants to
display and this can really help you
with FPS boost in fortnite then click on
this little settings icon then go under
preferences and make sure that all of
these toggles are turned off since we
don't want any of these overlays to show
up in our game and that's basically it
for AMD users now let's move on to the
safest method to overclock your GPU
without overheating it without breaking
it and it's 100% safe what we will doing
is once again using the same software
that we downloaded that was MSI After
Burner so simply go ahead and open it up
and once it opens up we will be using
this to overclock our GPU now this
method will work for both Nvidia and AMD
gpus however for AMD gpus I will also
show you a one-click solution to
completely overclock your GPU which is
even easier than this method however for
NVIDIA users there is no such method so
I'm going to go ahead and use this one
so if I revert my settings you can see
that my Cod clock is at 11:30 now for
every GPU you can easily increase the
score clock by 25 to 50 without
encountering any heating issues or any
other issues so what I recommend is
simply go ahead and add 25 to this and
then add 50 to this for me I kept
testing it and at around 1190 that was
my safest spot so I'm going to go ahead
and set this to 11 and then 90 and then
hit enter and then I'm going to go ahead
and click on this check mark once you
have increased your core clock I also
want you to increase the power limit for
this I would recommend adding 15% so go
from 0 to 15 and then hit enter you can
also increase the fan speed and set it
to custom if you want to check my fan
settings then I'm going to go to
settings go to Fan then click on enable
user defined automatic fan control and
this is my curve that I personally use
so at 25° I have set to 50% fan speed
and then at 85° I've have set to 100%
fan speed so you can copy this one if
you want to lower your temperatures and
then hit okay your fans should ramp up
quite a bit after applying this setting
then hit check once more and now what
you need to do is go into a game or two
and monitor your temps for NVIDIA gpus
the temperatures should never exceed 80°
in Celsius while for AMD gpus the
temperatures should never exceed 90 so
if they are exceeding then go ahead and
bump this down bump this down a bit as
well and that's it however since I am
using an AMD GPU on this PC I'm going to
go ahead and reset the settings from
here and then go ahead and open up the
AMD software inside of here simply go to
Performance then go to tuning and then
click on this little button which says
overclock GPU it will give you a warning
but all you need to do is simply click
on proceed then it will automatically
calculate the best overclock for your
GPU which in my case is once again 1190
I'm going to hit okay and it also
automatically adjust the fan speed as
well as the power consumption so you
have nothing to worry about now you can
close out of this and that's it at this
point we are already hitting 240 FPS in
fortnite however these lost few Windows
settings which a lot of people Overlook
got us over 270 FPS in fortnite starting
with the Windows settings so open up the
start menu and search for Windows
security then go ahead and open it up
inside of here go to the device security
tab then under core isolation details
make sure that memory Integrity is
turned off it will require a restart
which we will be doing later so simply
close out of this and close out of this
as well then go ahead and open up the
windows settings once more and this time
go to gaming make sure that the game bar
is turned off and it should be then
under game mode make sure that the game
mode is turned on if you have the
hardware accelerated GPU scheduling
option make sure that you turn it on
then click on browse for this option go
ahead and browse to your fortnite
directory then click on this. exe and
hit add then go to options and set it to
high performance hit save go back to
settings once more and this time go to
system then scroll all the way down to
about and click on Device Manager once
it opens up scroll down to the system
devices and expand it down then right
click on the high Precision event timer
and disable device hit yes and it should
help you a bit with the input delay
reduction then under here go ahead and
click on the advanced system settings
then click on settings once more then
click on Advanced and then make sure
adjust for best performance off is set
two programs then hit okay and okay once
more and now it's time to enable and
activate the ultimate performance power
plan since it is the best power plan
that comes packed in with windows so
open up the start menu and search for
CMD then run it as administrator then
copy and paste this command from the
description and hit enter and as you can
see that the ultimate performance power
plan should be added now in order to
activate it go down to the Windows
settings once more go to system then
click on Power and sleep and then click
on additional power settings inside of
here under the hide additional plans you
should be able to see the ultimate
performance power plan so simp simply
check it then click on change plan
settings and make sure to set this to
never as well then hit save changes now
you can close out of this and by
applying all of these optimizations we
literally went from 100 fps to over 270
FPS on this lowend PC but if you want to
get even more performance out of your PC
then go ahead and check out this video
right now
[Music]